Overview of the library
-----------------------

The IPET library consists of two main parts: a back end, which is responsible
for data acquisition, data storage, and file IO, and a front end, which
consists of the necessary components to interact with the back end data
through a user interface.
The central back end controller class is called
TestRun, and resides in a module of the same name.
In order to acquire solver benchmark data, we have to feed our program
with solver output in the form of log files.
It is safe to rely on the format of ".out"-files that are generated by SCIP
when running the

    make test

command.
Every log file is represented by an instance of the TestRun class.

An object
of the Comparator class comprises an arbitrary number of TestRun
instances, which are associated to a (list of) SCIP log files. Data are
read by means of StatisticReader instances. A newly constructed
Comparator instance comes with a large variety of available readers for
parsing the solving time and number of branch-and-bound nodes, but also
more advanced readers that read in complete tables, or so-called histories;
the latter combine column output from the periodic SCIP status table, such
as the development of the primal bound as a function of the solving time. It is also
possible to add additional readers and reevaluate the log file information.

After the collection of the data has been finished, the
acquired data for each TestRun is stored as DataFrame object
of the pandas library.
Data frames allow for fast data manipulations such as grouping data, transformations,
aggregations, and combinations of them. The data can also be exported to several
formats such as, e.g., LaTeX, Microsoft Excel ".xls"-format, or ".csv"-files.